NAFAE CONSTITUTION
1.	The name of the Association is National Association for Fine Art Education, herein after called NAFAE. 
2.	Objects and powers 
a.	NAFAE is established to advocate the interests and continuing development of Fine Art education. Fine Art is recognised as a subject association and is used inclusively to recognise the broad visual arts practices encompassing new media, sonic, installation, time based and performance and live art forms.
b.	In furtherance of the said objects but not otherwise NAFAE may: 
i.	Maintain national and international networks. 
ii.	Bring together in conference representatives of voluntary organisations, Government departments, statutory authorities and individuals. 
iii.	In partnership with members promote and carry out or assist in promoting and carrying out research, surveys and investigations and publish the useful results thereof.
iv.	Organise exhibitions, meetings, lectures, classes, seminars and training courses. 
v.	Collect and disseminate information on all matters affecting the said objects and exchange such information with other bodies having similar objects nationally and internationally.
vi.	Undertake, execute, manage or assist any charitable trusts which may lawfully be undertaken, executed, managed or assisted by the Association. 
vii.	Cause to be written and printed or otherwise reproduced and circulated, gratuitously or otherwise, such papers, books, periodicals, pamphlets and other documents or films or recorded tapes (whether audio or visual or both) as shall further the said objects. 
viii.	Raise funds and invite and receive contributions from any persons whatsoever by way of subscriptions and otherwise, provided that NAFAE shall not undertake permanent trading activities in raising funds for the said objects. 
ix.	Invest NAFAE monies not immediately required for the said objects in or upon such investments, securities or property as may be thought fit, subject nevertheless to such conditions (if any) as may for the time being be imposed or required by law. 
x.	Do all such other lawful things as are necessary for the attainment of the said objects. 
3.	Membership 
a.	Institutional membership of the Association shall be open to all educational institutions, in higher, further and secondary education, in one of the following categories: 
i.	Full membership Institutions offering a course with a substantial Fine Art or equivalent component, whether at undergraduate or postgraduate level. Each full institutional member shall appoint three individuals to represent it and vote on its behalf at General Meetings of the Association. 
ii.	Associate membership Institutions offering courses or programmes of pre-degree study in Fine Art, or which are seen by the Association as directly concerned with preparing students for Fine Art study at a later stage - subject to the approval of Officers of the Association. Each Associate institutional member may appoint one individual to represent it and vote on its behalf at General Meetings. 
iii.	Individual membership Individuals who have an interest in, and an influence upon, the development and promotion of Fine Art education, subject to the approval of the Officers of the Association. Individual members shall not be entitled to vote. 
iv.	Honorary membership Honorary membership will be extended by the invitation of the Officers and Steering Committee hereinafter mentioned, to individuals in recognition of their outstanding work and influence upon the development and promotion of Fine Art education. Honorary members shall not be entitled to vote. 
b.	The Steering Committee shall have the right: 
i.	To approve or reject applications for membership, and 
ii.	for good and sufficient reason to terminate the membership of any individual or organisation provided that the individual concerned or the individual representing such organisations (as the case may be) shall have the right to be heard by the Steering Committee before a final decision is made. 
4.	Honorary Officers 
a.	At the Annual General Meeting hereinafter mentioned the Association shall elect a Chair, an Honorary Secretary and a Treasurer and such other Honorary Officers as the Association shall from time to time decide which will act as the Steering Committee (hereinafter called the Committee). 
b.	The Chair and the Honorary Officers of the Association shall hold office for two years and may be elected for one further term, provided that no Honorary Officer nor Chair shall hold office for more than four consecutive years. On the expiration of such period, two further years must elapse before any former Honorary Officer or Chair shall be eligible for re-election. 
c.	The Chair and the Honorary Officers shall be members of the Association, the said Steering Committee and any other committee as appropriate. 
d.	The Association shall appoint one or more qualified accountants and may determine their remuneration (if any). 
5.	Steering Committee 
a.	Subject as hereinafter mentioned the policy and general management of the affairs of the Association shall be directed by the committee which shall meet not less than three times a year and when quorate shall consist of not less than five members. 
b.	The election of the Committee shall be for two years. 
c.	The Chair of each Regional Network (see Clause 6) will automatically serve on the Committee for a maximum of four years. On the expiration of such period two further years must elapse before any Chair of a Regional Network shall be eligible for re-election. 
d.	In addition to the members so elected and to those serving by virtue of Clause 4 (c) hereof the Committee may co-opt up to five further members being full members of the Association who shall serve until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting provided that the number of co-opted members shall not exceed one-third of the total membership of the Committee at the time of co-option. Co-opted members shall be entitled to vote at meetings of the Committee. 
e.	Any casual vacancy in the Committee may be filled up by the Committee and any such person appointed to fill such a casual vacancy shall hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Association and shall be eligible for election at the meeting. 
f.	The proceedings of the Committee shall not be invalidated by any failure to elect or defect in the election, appointment, co-option or qualification of any member. 
g.	The Committee shall appoint and fix the remuneration of an administrator and of all such other staff (not being members of the Committee) as may in their opinion be necessary. 
h.	The Committee may appoint such special or standing committees as may be deemed necessary by the Committee and shall determine their terms of reference, powers, duration and composition. All acts and proceedings of such special or standing committees shall be reported back to the Committee as soon as possible. 
6.	Regional Networks 
a.	The Committee shall have the power to establish regional networks for the furtherance of the said objects. Each network so established shall comply with and be subject to the following regulations: 
b.	The regional network shall act in pursuance of said objects and of the policy of the Association and shall be subject to such conditions as may from time to time be laid down by the Committee. 
c.	The regional networks will be deemed to have adopted the model rules for the networks as prescribed from time to time by the Committee unless it has, with the prior approval of the Committee, adopted other rules. 
d.	The regional networks may publish literature solely in the name of the network for local purposes but such literature shall not contain any statement contrary to the said objects or to the policy of the Association. 
e.	Representatives of whatever kind to the other bodies and/or individuals should normally be made by the regional network through or with the prior approval of the Committee. 
f.	All legacies bequeathed to the Association shall be received by the Treasurer or other appropriate Officer of the Association but, subject to any special trusts by which such legacies may be affected, the Committee shall have the power to direct that any legacy or the income therefrom shall be paid to a particular regional network. 
g.	The regional network may be empowered by the Committee to receive donations and any money received or raised by it may be expanded by the regional network in its area solely for the furtherance of the said objects. The regional network shall make returns to the Association in such forms as may from time to time be determined by the Committee. 
h.	Subject to these regulations, the regional network may generally manage its own affairs and shall be solely responsible for its own debts and liabilities and shall not pledge the credit of the Association or that of the Committee or of any individual member of the Committee. 
7.	Meetings of the Association 
a.	An Annual General Meeting of the Association shall be held not later than the last day of May once a year (not being more than 15 months after the holding of the preceding Annual General Meeting). The place shall be determined by the Committee. At least 21 clear days notice shall be given in writing by the Honorary Secretary to each member. At such Annual General Meeting the business shall include the election of Honorary Officers; the election of members to serve on the Committee; the appointment of an accountant; the consideration of an annual report of the work done by or under the auspices of the Committee and to receive and approve the accounts; and the transaction of such other matters as may from time to time be necessary. 
b.	The Chair of the Committee may at any time at his/her discretion, and the Honorary Secretary shall, within 21 days of receiving a written request so to do (signed by not less than 20 individuals representing not less than 15 institutional full or associate members and giving reasons for the request), call a Special General Meeting of the Association. 
8.	Nominations of Honorary Officers and Committee Members 
a.	Only individuals representing full or associate institutional members of the Association shall be eligible to serve as Honorary Officers or members of the Committee. Nominations for Honorary Officers or members of the Committee must be made by individuals representing full or associate institutional members of the Association in writing and must be in the hands of the Honorary Secretary at least 21 days before the Annual General Meeting. Should nominations exceed vacancies, election shall be by ballot (or election shall be made by a system of postal voting, the arrangements for which shall be made by the Committee). 
9.	Rules of Procedure at all Meetings 
a.	Quorum: The quorum at the Annual General Meeting of the Association shall be one third of the total actual membership of the Association* for the time being, the Committee or committee (as the case may be) or such other number as the Association may in General Meeting from time to time determine. 
b.	Voting: Save as otherwise herein provided, all questions at any meeting shall be decided by a simple majority of those present and entitled to vote thereat. Arrangements for proxy voting may from time to time be made by the Committee provided always that no such arrangements shall be made with regard to clauses 12 and 13 hereof. No person shall exercise more than one vote notwithstanding that he or she may have been appointed to represent two or more interests. In case of an equality of votes the Chair of the meeting shall have a second or casting vote. 
c.	Minutes: Minutes shall be kept by the Committee and all other committees, and the administrator will be tasked to enter therein a record of all proceedings and resolutions. 
d.	Standing orders and rules: The Committee shall have the power to adopt and issue Standing Orders and/or Rules for the Association. Such Standing Orders and/or Rules shall come into operation immediately provided always that they shall be subject to review by the Association in General Meeting and shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution. 
10.	Finance 
a.	All monies raised by or on behalf of the Association shall be applied to further the objects of the Association and for no other purpose provided that nothing herein contained shall prevent the payment in good faith of reasonable and proper remuneration to any employee of the Association or the repayment to members of the Committee or of any committee appointed under Clause 5 (h) hereof of reasonable out-of-pocket expenses. 
b.	The Honorary Treasurer shall keep proper accounts of the finances of the Association. 
c.	The accounts shall be presented at the Annual General Meeting. 
d.	A bank account shall be held in the name of the Association at a bank as the Committee shall from time to time decide. The Committee shall authorise in writing the Treasurer or the Chair and a designated signatory from the Committee to sign cheques on behalf of the Association. All cheques must be signed by not less than two of the three authorised signatories. 
11.	Alterations to the Constitution 
a.	Any alteration to the constitution shall receive the assent of not less than two thirds of the full membership of the Association for the time being whether individual or representative present and voting at a meeting specially called for the purpose provided that notice of any such alteration shall have been received by the Honorary Secretary in writing not less than 28 clear days before the meeting at which the alteration is to be proposed. At least 28 clear days notice in writing of such a meeting, setting forth the terms of the alteration, shall be sent by the Honorary Secretary to each member of the Association. 
12.	Dissolution 
a.	If the Committee by a simple majority decide at any time that on the ground of expense or otherwise it is necessary or advisable to dissolve the Association, it shall call a meeting of all the members of the Association who have the power to vote, of which meeting not less than 21 days notice (stating terms of the Resolution to be proposed thereat) shall be given. If such decision shall be confirmed by a simple (two-thirds) majority of those present and voting at such meeting the Committee shall have power to dispose of any assets held by or on behalf of the Association. Any assets remaining after the satisfaction of any proper debts and liabilities shall be given or transferred to such other charitable institution or institutions having objects similar to the objects of the Association as the Committee may determine. 
13.	Notices 
a.	Any notice may be served by the Honorary Secretary on any member either personally or on its own appointed representative as the case may be, or by sending it through the post in a prepaid letter addressed to such member at his, her or its last known postal address in the United Kingdom, and any letter so sent shall be deemed to have been received within ten days of posting. 
14.	Interpretation 
a.	For the interpretation of this Constitution the Interpretation Act, 1978, shall apply as it applies to the interpretation of an Act of Parliament. 
*Total actual membership is defined as the total number of full or associate institutions, notwithstanding that a full institution may have three votes.
